README.md, before:

# AssetFetch for Blender

This addon is a client for the [AssetFetch protocol](https://assetfetch.org), an open system for 3D asset discovery and automated imports.

![image](https://github.com/struffel/assetfetch-blender/assets/31403260/6f218e1a-2de1-4054-97f0-99655d513dad)

# Installation

**A user-friendly installation via ZIP file is not yet available, but it will be provided along with the first actual release in the near future.**
Until then the addon can only be installed using the development setup, outlined below.

## Development Setup

This is the setup for developing the addon.

1. Create a symlink in your filesystem that connects the `/src` folder in this repository with blender's addon directory, for example on Windows this would be `C:\Users\<User>\AppData\Roaming\Blender Foundation\Blender\4.0\scripts\addons\src`.
2. Download the required python-dependencies:
```bash
# Make sure that you are in the root of this repository (same directory as this readme file)
# Download the required packages into the src/lib directory
pip install --target ./src/lib/ -r ./requirements.txt
```
3. Download the JSON-Schema for AssetFetch
```bash
# Download the latest json schema version for AssetFetch
# Change the -b parameter to use a different branch/tag
mkdir ./tmp
git -C ./tmp/ clone -b '0.2' --single-branch https://github.com/AssetFetch/spec.git 
cp -r ./tmp/spec/json-schema/ ./src/
rm -rf ./tmp
```
4. I recommend developing in VS Code with the [Blender Development Extension by Jacques Lucke](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=JacquesLucke.blender-development)

## Code overview

The addon is split into multiple modules:

- `operator` contains all the bpy operators, meaning all the distinct actions this addon can perform.
- `property` contains all the bpy properties that are used to store and handle the incoming data from the provider. AF stores all its data in  `bpy.context.window_manager.af`.
- `ui` contains the code for the individual panels, all of which are in the `VIEW_3D` section (meaning the window that you get by opening the right-side panel in the 3D view).
- `util` is for miscellaneous functionality.

Every module's `__init__.py` imports all relevant classes and stores them in a `registration_targets` array from where the `register()` and `unregister()` functions read them when the addon is (un)loaded inside Blender.

The global `__init__.py` for the entire addon does the same pattern again by loading the registration functions from all the other modules.

Required dependencies are loaded from the `/src/lib` directory.


## YAPF style

The following YAPF style configuration is recommended:
```
{based_on_style: pep8, indent_width:4, continuation_indent_width:4, continuation_align_style = fixed, column_limit: 180, use_tabs: true}
```

When using VSCode you can install the YAPF extension (`eeyore.yapf`) and add the following to your settings.json:

```
"yapf.args": ["--style", "{based_on_style: pep8, indent_width:4, continuation_indent_width:4, continuation_align_style = fixed, column_limit: 180, use_tabs: true}"]
```

Commit message:

Add installation instructions to readme

README.md, after:

# AssetFetch for Blender

This addon is a client for the [AssetFetch protocol](https://assetfetch.org), an open system for 3D asset discovery and automated imports.

![image](https://github.com/struffel/assetfetch-blender/assets/31403260/6f218e1a-2de1-4054-97f0-99655d513dad)

# Installation

1. Visit the [Releases page](https://github.com/struffel/assetfetch-blender/releases)
2. Choose the latest version and click on "Assets" below the informative text
3. Download `af_blender_X_Y_Z.zip` from this page (not "Source code")
4. Go into Blender and select **Edit -> Preferences -> Addons**.
5. Then click on the Install button in the top right corner and navigate to the ZIP file (no need to unpack it).
6. The AssetFetch panel will be added in the right-side menu in the 3D-window.

## Development Setup

This is the setup for developing the addon.

1. Create a symlink in your filesystem that connects the `/src` folder in this repository with blender's addon directory, for example on Windows this would be `C:\Users\<User>\AppData\Roaming\Blender Foundation\Blender\4.0\scripts\addons\src`.
2. Download the required python-dependencies:
```bash
# Make sure that you are in the root of this repository (same directory as this readme file)
# Download the required packages into the src/lib directory
pip install --target ./src/lib/ -r ./requirements.txt
```
3. Download the JSON-Schema for AssetFetch
```bash
# Download the latest json schema version for AssetFetch
# Change the -b parameter to use a different branch/tag
mkdir ./tmp
git -C ./tmp/ clone -b '0.2' --single-branch https://github.com/AssetFetch/spec.git 
cp -r ./tmp/spec/json-schema/ ./src/
rm -rf ./tmp
```
4. I recommend developing in VS Code with the [Blender Development Extension by Jacques Lucke](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=JacquesLucke.blender-development)

## Code overview

The addon is split into multiple modules:

- `operator` contains all the bpy operators, meaning all the distinct actions this addon can perform.
- `property` contains all the bpy properties that are used to store and handle the incoming data from the provider. AF stores all its data in  `bpy.context.window_manager.af`.
- `ui` contains the code for the individual panels, all of which are in the `VIEW_3D` section (meaning the window that you get by opening the right-side panel in the 3D view).
- `util` is for miscellaneous functionality.

Every module's `__init__.py` imports all relevant classes and stores them in a `registration_targets` array from where the `register()` and `unregister()` functions read them when the addon is (un)loaded inside Blender.

The global `__init__.py` for the entire addon does the same pattern again by loading the registration functions from all the other modules.

Required dependencies are loaded from the `/src/lib` directory.


## YAPF style

The following YAPF style configuration is recommended:
```
{based_on_style: pep8, indent_width:4, continuation_indent_width:4, continuation_align_style = fixed, column_limit: 180, use_tabs: true}
```

When using VSCode you can install the YAPF extension (`eeyore.yapf`) and add the following to your settings.json:

```
"yapf.args": ["--style", "{based_on_style: pep8, indent_width:4, continuation_indent_width:4, continuation_align_style = fixed, column_limit: 180, use_tabs: true}"]
```
